---
tags: R Coursework
---

Investigate a particular hypothesis test e.g. **a Binomial test**, **a paired Student’s t test**, **an unpaired Student’s t test**, an **F test for ANOVA**, **a Mann-Whitney U test**, **a Wilcoxon signed-rank** test, **a Kruskal Wallis** test, or some other test you find interesting.

Note that clarity of presentation is highly important. In addition, you should aim to demonstrate a depth of understanding. For this hypothesis test you are asked to do the following:

1. Give a clear description of the hypothesis test including the details of <font color=#c10b26>the test statistic</font>, <font color=#c10b26>the underlying assumptions</font>, <font color=#c10b26>the null hypothesis</font> and <font color=#c10b26>the alternative hypothesis</font>. <u>Give an intuitive explanation for why the test statistic is useful in distinguishing between the null and the alternative.</u>
2. Perform ==a simulation study== to investigate the probability of `type I error` under <font color=#c10b26>the null hypothesis</font> for your hypothesis test. Your simulation study should involve <font color=#c10b26>randomly generated data</font> which conforms to <font color=#c10b26>the null hypothesis</font>. Compare the proportion of rounds where a `Type I error` is made with the significance level of the test.
3. Apply this hypothesis test to a suitable real-world data set of your choice (some places to find data sets are described below). Ensure that your chosen data set is appropriate for your chosen hypothesis test. For example, if your chosen hypothesis test is an unpaired t-test then your chosen data set must have at least one continuous variable and contain at least two groups. It is recommended that your data set for this task not be too large. You should explain the source and the structure of your data set within your report.
4. Carefully discuss the appropriateness of your statistical test in this setting and how your hypotheses correspond to different aspects of the data set. You may want to use plots to demonstrate the validity of your underlying assumptions. Draw a statistical conclusion and report the value of your test statistic, the p-value and a suitable measure of effect size.
5. Discuss what scientific conclusions can you draw from your hypothesis test. Discuss how these would have differed if the result of your statistical test had differed. Discuss key experimental design considerations necessary for drawing any such scientific conclusion. For example, perhaps an alternative experimental design would have allowed one to draw a conclusion about cause and effect?